okay hello Andy
I'm mr. Rogan thanks for having me oh my
pleasure how you doing man you're all
healed up the bruising and swelling has
gone down as you can see but the most
serious injury was to the brain you have
a serious injury to your brain yeah
brain hemorrhage what happened from what
the mob beating so if I'm getting hit in
the head you got a brain hemorrhage
multiple times regions yes they were
bashing me on the back of my head and to
my eyes but so how do you know you had
brain hemorrhaging and how are you able
to just walk around well I was taken to
I started losing my balance after the
beating mm-hmm there was no police made
it to the courthouse sat down on the
ground ambulance was called I had to
walk back to the ambulance because the
streets were walked back to the police
precinct in the direction of the mob the
medics that were associated with the
Portland Police let me know that they
thought I needed to walk in that
direction it was quite shocking because
it was I just been a victim of the small
beating and then now they're telling me
to walk back in direction of the center
precinct by the beating had happened did
they not know that you had been beaten
up well it's let's let's set this up for
people who are new to this and don't
understand what happened I've been aware
of you because of you had written for
Colette right and you had become one of
these for whatever reason controversial
online journalists and you covered ante
fuh quite a bit and you covered a lot of
the radical left you were in Portland
and what was the exact rally that was
going on what was it called
did it have a name it was something like
protect Portland so it was organized by
row city on tufa and its allies and by
its allies I mean I'm referring to the
local chapter of the Democratic
Socialist America came out to support
them in numbers and what are they
protecting Portland from they allege
fascist fascists who just
in general I mean is there like a
particular thing they're worried about
there were two right-wing events
happening that day that they were
countered demonstrating against there
was a one part one part of downtown the
proud boys were holding a flag waving
event that was completely peaceful there
was no actually flag waving American
flag waving correct okay and a lot of
Portland has found that provocative and
a manifestation of fascistic violence
and in another part of downtown there
was a men's rights activist who was
holding a rally it was titled for the
victims of domestic terrorism it was an
anti anti fuh event Hey so a men's
rights activist yes that was doing an
anti-fascist or anti anti fuh Craigs
well what boy seems like a whole lot of
do about nothing
flag waving and anti ante foe okay yes
can I set the context for please for the
city of Portland it's a mess you have
listeners and viewers all over the world
so Portland Oregon is a extremely
progressive city in the Pacific
Northwest of the US and I call it a
political monoculture because really
it's not just you're more likely to find
socialists open socialist there than you
would find like a regular Republican or
conservative and within the sort of echo
chamber of just leftist politics there's
it's become also a hotbed for far-left
militancy so Rose City on Tifa is you
could call it like the local chapter
movement of anti feds one of the oldest
in the country it's very large important
and they hold what you could call
protest but they're there their protests
are always devolve into riots where they
essentially take over parts of downtown
and attack people attack their
ideological opponents and do it
frequently with impunity I mean I wasn't
only one attack that day there were
people who were bashed on the head very
and have very severe lacerations to the
face on head you may recall the footage
from October of last year when there was
elderly driver who was attacked on the
streets yeah they were directing traffic
exactly in and somehow or another the
mayor thought it was a good idea to let
this take place is that the case and
they told the police to stand down
is that true so I mean the next part of
this journey for me will be the legal
aspect of it and it seems like something
stinks in Portland the issue is really
not with the rank-and-file officers
they're following orders to not
intervene so I I have been assaulted and
criminally harassed early before the mob
beating people were throwing milkshakes
at my face and head within eyesight of
police who were watching in downtown and
both of these were reported in the
dancer that I heard that day as I've
heard many times before when I've been
assaulted by an Tifa is that we will not
question approach or detain the suspect
because this couldn't Slyke the crowd
okay so this is why this has exacerbate
or this is why this has become such a
big deal in Portland because of this
attitude because Portland seems to be
the hotbed right now for this kind of
stuff is that is that fair to say I
think it is so is this the mayor
I mean who is who's the one who's giving
the orders to the police to tell them to
allow this stuff to take place well I'm
crowdfunding for the legal phone right
now and we are willing we are going to
hold accountable whoever is responsible
for dereliction of duty where the
evidence leads us so Portland has an odd
governance system in that the mayor who
is up for reelection by the way is also
the police commissioner so oh wow yeah
how does that work it is an old system
that it inherited and it just and never
changed from the Wild West
like that sounds ridiculous yeah it is
ridiculous you can see all the
political conflicts and in conflicts of
interest that that yeah would arise
right yeah yeah shitload how did you get
involved in this like what why first of
all why would they ingry you I I work as
a journalist I'll name like places that
I've been published before I write and I
do video and I do podcasts so my written
work has been published in The Wall
Street Journal the National Review
Spectator New York Post I'm also on the
editorial team of Colette magazine and
one of my beats amongst Averell is about
far-left militancy particularly in
Portland and to me what I was noticing
was that the national and local media
coverage had a particular blind spot
when it came to their coverage on an
tyfa there was all this sensitivity to
the : unquote far-right and white
nationalism or white identity extremism
but they could not or would not
recognize the militancy that was on the
left in Portland seemed to be one of the
places for Ground Zero particularly
after 2016 we had very violent rioting
in downtown the a segment of the
population could not accept the election
results in November and so they did a
million dollars in damage setting fires
and destroying properties and businesses
and at that time I was a graduate
student working at the Student Paper and
I destroyed on that and I came out to
witness and it it you know this was a
major American city but it felt like I
was in Afghanistan or Iraq just with all
these fires and explosions and people
running around with bats while massed up
and that was the first time I really
became familiar with anti-fun I took an
interest in it and I saw over and over
look the media coverage was basically
really sort of whitewashing then kind of
like referring to them as anti-fascist
giving them that propaganda victory and
anti-fascism movement the Masters of
doublespeak and disinformation
so it starts with the name anti father
is short for anti-fascist but I never
refer to them as that because that's
seeding the ground - to them they when
they say that they are defending a
community self-defense it actually is
referring to meat premeditated violence
and offensive violence so I started
going to covering this more and more you
know after I left the student paper I
started writing for some national and
international publications and though
internationally there was a you know set
of readers who interested in what the
hell is going on in Portland why are
there these continued scenes of street
brawls and anarchy over and over what
are the variables that are causing this
and I thought that I could try to shine
a light on it and by doing so an tyfa
became enraged with my work and
particularly things they hated me since
last year but they started really
escalating on on the 1st of May May Day
so this year was when I was physically
assaulted by them for the first time
they were very upset that I wrote a
story from the New York Post where there
was a series of and this is one of the
other beats that I work on his hate
crime hoaxes and Portland earlier this
year I had this huge panic over serious
allegations of LGBT people claiming that
they were marauding right-wing gangs
driving around trying to kill people
with bats with hammers trying to kidnap
them and these were all rumors that were
reported on social media calls a huge
frenzy even the mayor had to come out
and you know issue statement about how
he was concerned there was an emergency
Town Hall with the the local queer
Center and so I started looking into all
these allegations there was 15 of them
found that of the 15 only one was
reported to police and what was reported
to police and documented in the report
was entirely different from the GoFundMe
where over 10 thousand dollars was
raised for this trans activist she had
alleged that one night walking home
transphobic people had beat her with the
bat and knocked her unconscious police
report said that she was extremely
intoxicated and likely fell and there
was no evidence that anybody had
assaulted her so when I the story came
out because anti-fog was really anti fun
the Democratic Socialist America and
Portland were really involved in
peddling this hate crime fear in
Portland and I just kind of you know
threw water on this panic that they have
been flaming and so on the first of May
there was a riot that I was covering and
one of the masked I don't see Fela
people went up and sprayed me with I
think it was bear mace some type of
chemical that blinds you and burns you
yeah I saw the video yeah so there was
no police that that was there that I
mean that anti fire that was publicly
advertised on Facebook and all that so
over and over like empty files very
transparent about their calls for people
to come to the stuff in to engage in
this physical confrontation that they
call self-defense and the police either
stay away or on purpose or are told to
stay away so it's very confusing because
when you watch the videos there's
amazing people there amazing people who
disagree with them like they're yelling
at each other and then someone will come
along and mace people and for the police
to not step in and do something it's I
don't I don't think there's another city
in the country that would allow
something like that it just doesn't it
doesn't seem like it makes any sense at
all because you're not talking about
people that are being physically
attacked and that are macing someone to
protect themselves or even a threat of
being physically attacked they're just
disagreeing with each other and yelling
at each other and then someone will come
along and start macing people and I've
seen it many times and I think there's
also a real problem with people wearing
masks you know whether there are idea
LG makes sense or not when you put
people in masks and then you have a
bunch of people yelling and escalating
and then there's teams there's team and
PETA versus team you know anybody
opposing them they feel is a white
supremacist or a Nazi and this is just
how they've chosen to frame it to
dehumanize people and then you see them
attack people I'm sure you're aware of
the girl who got maced in the face
because she had a hat on that said make
Bitcoin great again but it was the same
color hat as the make America great
again hat and she got maced in the face
and she got hit with something too right
didn't she get hit in the face with
something anyway
this kind of shit is really weird it's
really weird and disturbing to see these
young people with these ideal idealistic
versions of what they're doing I think a
lot of the people that are involved in
that really think they are fighting
fascism they really do they really think
that Donald Trump and the proud boys and
white supremacists from Charlottesville
carrying tiki torches that these people
represent something horrible that's
sweeping across the country and the
young people today need to stand up and
fight against this and they're putting
on masks and they're carrying backpacks
and whacking people in the head with
crowbars is really fucking weird to see
and it's really weird that the city of
Portland or all cities in fact haven't
made some sort of a law where you can't
walk around in public with a fucking
mask on because that is one of the
things that helps these people it's the
same thing that you see on social media
when people are anonymous and they say
the most horrible hateful shit they're
saying that because they're not in front
of you you can't recognize them they
don't have to take responsibility for
what they're saying this is a lot of the
same characteristics that a person has
when they're wearing a costume you're
dressed in all black with gloves on and
a face mask and you're hitting people
with a bike lock like what what is that
about
well what that's about is you're getting
away with being anonymous and you're
getting support from all these other
people around you there's this mob
mentality that takes place it's well
documented with humans where when you
get a group of people together and
there's another group and it's like it's
a tribal warfare type situation and
that's what you're seeing within teeth
and the fact that the Portland Police
have I don't know what's going on with
them whether they've been told to not
handle that
but the fact they haven't done anything
to mitigate this is fucking it's it's
embarrassing it's it's a shame it's it's
terrible it really is it's a it's a
travesty you asked about the mayor
earlier and and if he issued any stand
on orders there's a statement that was
put out after I was attacked by the
Pajero Turner who's the president of the
police union and he said very clearly he
called from the mayor to remove the
handcuffs handcuffs of law enforcement
so they can enforce the law and he
accuses America little icing the police
department is this mayor popular no he's
not he's hated well by moderates because
of the things that he allows to up in
the city but the father hate him as well
they view him as not radical enough why
why are they mad at you is it just the
articles you've written because somebody
told me that you had been accused of
daxing people is that true absolutely
not true so this is such an outrageous
deferment reclaim so what happened was
on May Day at that riot there was one of
the anti faux women had charged in to
participate in the fight during the
brawl in one of the right wing person he
was wearing a mask I didn't know who he
was allegedly had hit her on her head
near her head on her neck somewhere like
that she was knocked out I recognize
this woman from her activism that day as
the person who sabotage the sound
equipment when James d'amour came to
Portland State in February of last year
that was an event that I was involved in
organizing Portland State University and
we should just explain to people James
d'amours the author of the Google memo
that was talking about women in tech
that was wildly misrepresented what he
had said and people had claimed that he
was just awful sexist even the CEO of
YouTube said that he enforced harmful
gender stereotypes where while he was
citing evolutionary psychology and the
citing all these different studies on
why women gravitate towards particular
fields and even up
page and a half encouraging or strategy
to try out strategies to encourage more
women to get an attack but it was
basically in response to things that
Google had written about dealing with
the lack of women in tact what what is
the problem here they were looking for a
very particular answer which was sexism
and he was saying well it actually has
more to do with the choices that women
sort of naturally tend to gravitate
towards and he was saying that there was
a way to possibly encourage women to get
into technology and he devised these
strategies to do so but was wildly
misrepresented and he if you meet the
guy and I've had him on the podcast he
is a soft-spoken sweetheart of a guy
he's not a not a misogynist not a
mean-spirited person he was merely
looking at the results of studies and he
was looking at real raw data and that
this real tendency that certain people
have to gravitate towards certain
positions in life yeah so there was so
many misconceptions about James sumo
which is why the student group I was
involved in was invited him to come but
anti found that allies just could not
take that to try to shut down the event
they try to get it counseled and at that
event this one woman she damaged a sound
equipment as she was trying to shut it
down she pulled all these clothes out
and pushed the sound board on the ground
at broke so I recognized her from that
day she was named in the media and then
on may day recognized her so I named her
I said this is the name of the woman who
was knocked out I recognized her from
the Jains des Moines that protests where
she had damage to equipment and on Tifa
had spun that around as me daxing her
and that's not Daxing boxing is where
you release people's personal details
such as where they work where they live
the phone numbers with the so that
people who identified her
I named her yes okay she had been
identified in the media before she was a
big local activist so that's basically
it other than you writing these stories
criticizing their behavior what's
disturbing to me beyond disturbing was
legitimate journalists
that were making excuses for why you got
beat up and people saying things like
play stupid games win stupid prizes I
saw stuff like that that pick up better
hobby I saw a guy write that you know
anti-fascists will rule you know
Portland's not your place
I saw all this crazy shit from people
with blue checkmarks that were saying
that this is what happens when you
support fascism and I was so baffled by
this like I read some of your stuff I
haven't read all of it admittedly but
I've read some of you stuff none of it
came off as you supporting fascism I
came off as you maybe at the worst case
scenario being a contrarian and not
wanting to go with this sort of
left-wing ideology that is so widespread
throughout the Pacific Northwest but I
didn't see any I mean first of all
you're not a white guy we should be
explained to people you are Vietnamese
and you know you're what they would
consider a member of a protected class
you're not just a minority you're openly
gay you mean you're you're what what do
you consider yourself politically I've
been avoiding labels for a while I think
it's interesting that the loss of the
coverage on what happened to me always
qualified my who I am I was like a
conservative journalist well the worst
thing is the way they're labeled
Collette they said you work for
far-right a newspaper magazine Collette
which is not the case at all that's not
true
I think the subtle I mean the dog
whistles of the Tron is saying that this
person deserved it and these are the
same people who always talk about
believe the victim they were the ones
who jumped on to believe justice
Millette but I guess I was the wrong
type of victim well exactly because even
though you are you you seem like a very
nice person
you weren't doing anything violent you
you were supporting the wrong thing or
not supporting them not supporting not
just blindly supporting what an teef is
involved with which is what I mean that
is what fascism is I mean if you you
can't even question some of the more
heinous things that we clearly heinous
things they're doing just fucking
amazing people in the audience macing
people in the crowd just pointing it at
people yelling and screaming hitting
each other with things when you're
wearing masks getting involved these
brawls it's so fucking stupid it's so
stupid to watch it's like this is base
human behavior in its worst example and
the fact that this dumbass fucking mayor
thinks that this is a good idea to let
this play itself out this is how people
get shot this is how people die when you
allow a certain amount of violence and
when you condone or don't do anything
with violence that you can't defend like
violence against a person like yourself
I saw those guys hitting you in the back
of the head throwing milkshakes Iggy
will you try just trying to walk away
you weren't doing anything yeah youyou
asked me at the beginning how did I get
the the brain hemorrhage so the video
that's gone viral does actually the
second half of the beating I don't know
if there's video the first half
hopefully there's through CCTV or
something but the first there are more
hits to my face on my head and so when I
went to the hospital because of the
nature of the contusions on my head they
did a CT is kind of in the in the ER and
that confirmed the subarachnoid
hemorrhage so what started what what was
the why'd you get hit okay 29th of June
okay that would be ten eleven days ago
from now and so there was that
demonstration happening auntie pho was
rallying to oppose the far right they
claim of post fascists I came was
excited to use my new GoPro I was a bit
nervous speaking I going to the event I
was nervous because I've been targeted
just two months earlier right I left my
house with the helmet gone to my car saw
briefly my you were a helmet I had to
help but I did have one saw a reflection
of myself took it off decided I
don't want anybody there to get the
impression that I came because they
already accused me of being a Nazi in
fall right and white supremacist I
didn't want any of them to then perceive
me by the fact that I came to the helmet
hasn't possibly a combatant so I'm like
Vietnamese white supremacist is that
possible in their eyes yes and I mean
this goes to the the bigger issue that
I've taken an issue with how flippant
people use these accusations not just
racist or being Nazi or far-right but
it's like what part of what makes
anti-fur so dangerous is that they feel
that they are morally justified in their
brutality yes and they get actually a
lot of morale from progressive and
left-wing media so after talking about
what the attack I would like to talk
about how the actual militant and tifo
people is very small those who are going
out and doing the violence the larger
group and those that I find more
concerning actually of the nonviolent in
Sofia antiva you find those more
concerning people are because they work
to mainstream anti fuss tactics and
ideas like now Daxing by an tyfa is not
even is kind of seen as well these
people deserve it
like do people not realize like when
your darks and you people's you know
releasing your address has happened to
me your family's address out it it puts
this constant state of fear in you even
when you're in your own home like i
don't know if they realize that so
there's the daxing and then of course
you know the punch the Nazi meme was
meant to be cute and funny but when they
label such a large segment of the
population has not seeds it's it's going
after a lot of people who are innocent
and law-abiding such as myself they're
also calling Jewish people Nazis is
actually insane and then now more
recently that the milk shaking was seen
as as cute non violent form a political
dissent as you saw in the video after I
was getting beaten I was trying to get
away then they were
pelting all these liquids at my head and
in my face and that blinded me I
couldn't even see really which way to
leave so to backtrack a little bit sorry
now I'm jumping all over it's okay
the March was right in the heart of
downtown just the fires attack they were
chanting no hate no fear
this is irony of it I remember that very
clearly the crowd was chanting that I
was walking towards the front of the
demonstration thought I would get a
wide-angle shot on my guv GoPro before I
could get there somebody bashes me
really hard in the back of the head and
I've never been in a fight mr. Rogan so
I didn't even realize what had happened
to me I was knocked forward as soon as I
caught my footing the punches kept
coming from every direction and all I
could see was like people Justin block
with mass and most of them that were
hitting me had on these gloves that have
the hardened knuckles I think it's like
gloves yes or tactical gloves yeah it
was just endless and I could see in the
background like this was in front of the
Justice Center this is the other sad
irony
so in broad daylight in the heart of
downtown steps away from the central
police precinct from the Sheriff's
Office this beating happened no police
intervene at any point I police see it I
don't know I nobody came to my aid at
any point before during or after so this
happens out of nowhere you get
blindsided the back of the head a bunch
of people punch you how many times you
think you got hit maybe six or more the
the fact that people dismiss this is not
being a big deal is really horrific Tim
it is the fact that the people that are
in an Tifa that are nonviolent folks
which I think I'm glad you brought that
up because I was going to bring that up
that it's the extreme of the extremists
right it's the people that think that
that there's a call for violence and
this is a reason to do it and even
someone like yourself that is a
non-violent person is just there as a
journalist that there is a justification
for just just for whatever reason you
want just go up to that person and start
hitting them even though they're not a
threat even though they're not doing
anything to harm anybody even though
they're not putting anybody in danger
there
just being a journalist and you feel
like you could justify hitting them it's
really disgusting and it's describing
that there was this thing with Vox where
Carlos Mesa was minimizing the the
impact of an Tifa and kind of joking
around about it and making it seem like
it's just no big deal and he got really
upset cuz steven crowder was making fun
of the fact that he's gay and the fact
that he talks with a lisp and that
Crowder mentioned that along with
mocking his stance on an tyfa and then
it became this gigantic thing that
steven crowder is a gay basher but what
didn't become a big deal is that this
guy is minimizing violent fascists and
that's what I mean that's how I feel
about this when you're trying to enforce
your own ideology on other people and
you have no tolerance for anybody with a
differing opinion particularly
journalists that is fascism it's so
ironic to call yourself an anti-fascist
when you're literally enforcing your own
particular ideology to the point of
violence and you're wearing masks and
you're running around hitting people and
pretending that you're being inundated
with Nazis and white supremacists and
that this is all necessary like that old
man that was just driving and they're
directing traffic and forcing him to
obey them and then when he doesn't want
to they chase after him and assault him
it's fuckin bananas and the fact that
this city has not stepped in and
recognized that they have a real problem
because this has got momentum behind it
and the people that are involved that
are nonviolent you gotta speak up
they've got to speak up if you're a
person that really believes that there
shouldn't be homophobia and there
shouldn't be violence and there
shouldn't be white supremacy good for
you you probably got involved in this
for all the right reasons but if you
don't recognize that someone like you
yourself who is a person of a different
ethnicity you're not a white person
you're Vietnamese you're a gay man you
got assaulted for no reason you didn't
do anything that mean it's almost like a
test of where do your values truly lie
and if you think it's okay for a person
like you to just get assaulted for no
reason you are the problem you're the
problem
your mindset is the problem it's not
whether or not there should be white
supremacy of course there should be it's
not whether or not there shouldn't be
people be able to freely express
themselves of course there should be
that is not what the issue is what the
issue is is group mob mentality when you
get people together and you let them
wear masks and you tell them that
they're fighting against some evil and
then they feel justified and hitting a
person like you it is really sickening
and there's this diffusion of
responsibility thing that happens when
one person hits you and everybody feels
like it's okay to hit you it's a mob
mentality thing and it's it is extremely
common with human beings
I've got been in mob situations it's
terrifying because you feel it in the
air you feel the chaos in the air when
you're in some sort of a large-scale
brawl type situation like anything can
happen people just run up on people and
start punching them it's not like two
people alone in an in like an open area
where they can talk and work things out
no it's chaos and there's some weird
animal activity there's some weird weird
animal instinct aspect to it that is
very unique to humans and when you see
something like this and see a guy like
you just getting peppered with
milkshakes and punched in the head and
it's fucking disturbing and for these
people to dismiss that and not stand out
not stand up and say hey this is not
what we're supposed to be about this is
not what I signed up for they become a
part of the problem I'm sure there's
people listening to this that are upset
at this because maybe you but you've
support an Tifa you support their
ideology think about what you actually
support think about what this is really
all about what you shouldn't be
supporting is people wearing masks
running around fucking hitting people
you ain't changing shit with that all
you're gonna do is call for more people
with masks from the other side if people
feel like right-wing people are being
attacked and and I don't think you're
even right-wing are you I mean what are
you just moved if you got a gun to your
head or a mace to your face what would
you we see you're a centrist what would
you say I think it's fair to describe me
as a center right center right okay
which is fine it should be okay I mean
this should be we should be allowed to
have
disagreements of ideologies and of
political persuasions political leanings
but this is it's twisted and it's
twisted the way it's being depicted in
the media it's very strange how it's
being dismissed it's very strange and
that there's really people in 2019
debating whether or not it's okay to
assault journalists it's fucking madness
well we've been seeing the build-up to
this for years people political violence
coming from the left is is seen as moral
and unfortunately even those working in
mainstream media how that Tynes excused
or found that type of violence good I'm
thinking of Chris Cuomo and Don Lemon at
CNN yes and I wonder if that played a
role in why they were the only hunter
left broadcast news station news network
to invite me on to speak no other
leftist unter media has invited me on to
any other show when they had you on to
speak
what was their attitude about all this I
think some host was very respectful and
fair who hosted who was John Brennan I
think so you think they were respectful
and fair did it bother you that people
like Chris Cuomo and Don Lemon had
openly supported and Tifa it did it I
mean in her this is was kind of
encouraged me to continue doing my work
months ago even last year when I was
getting threatened because it seemed
like I don't think Chris or dawn
actually understatement about anti-fun I
think you're right you know they fall
and they believe the the propaganda
about them this is just an anti-fascist
movement the name amid Rai itself I'm
hoping that like even with my injuries
and some you can see some you you can't
I'm continuing speak force myself to do
all these media engagements because I
want the the needle on the conversations
about anti-fur to move to change
like this is not just a movement of
people masking up and starting random
violence on the streets like the
violence isn't just it is not arbitrary
it's working towards their goal it's a
movement of violent radical anarchists
and communists and they're agitated for
political revolution and violence is
part of the modus operandi it's not a
bug it's the future of what they do so I
don't know if people recognize how
dangerousness is this movement in the
DHS since 2016 has described some event
to fuzz activities as domestic terrorist
violence so the fact that they're able
to openly organize and recruit on social
media is it's a baffling to me I'm
wondering like there's such as huge
blind spot for far-left militancy not
just in mainstream media but also in big
tech do you think this is because Trump
is president and because so many people
oppose Trump as president that the idea
of far-left militancy is in a in
opposition to what they oppose so they
feel like the the enemy of my enemy is
my friend
that's exactly what it is I think it
what Eric Weinstein had a great point
about this and he said the one of the
real issues is the cowards of the left
and the cowards of the right that are
allowing the extremists to do the work
for them so when people see someone like
the proud boys running around attacking
people even the proud voice you have to
realize that they started off as a joke
like when Gavin McGinnis first came up
with the idea of the proud boys it was
it was literally a joke and it became an
actual organization at for fun and then
people joined it that didn't think it
was a joke and then people joined it and
started taking in a deeper in deeper
direction then he'll eventually
disavowed himself in a band in the group
you see that I beat I bet you see the
same thing with antifa
I bet the idea initially was hey we see
these tiki torch carrying assholes in
Charlottesville we see that guy with the
car ran over the girl was a protester
and killed her like this fucking shit
has got to stop so we have to organize
we have to do something and then what
happens you get people in masks and you
get people just a
and then you get people that support
those people then you get the extremists
and the extremists who are not disavowed
who are not there's no one speaking out
against them from the left there's no
one saying hey this shit has got to stop
because they want them to do their dirty
work for them they want them to push the
envelope and push the agenda and get
their D their ideology moving in the
right direction even if it's done
through methods that they don't agree
with and that's where it gets horrible
because I see these people that are
involved in this and I know for a fact
just by watching them move and interact
with each other they don't understand
violence they don't they're not good at
it they don't understand it they this is
like role play it's like cosplay and
you're gonna call for reach you're gonna
get real violence in return and from
people who actually know how to do it
and if you look at violence from the
left and violence for the right violence
when the right scares me a whole lot
more they're a lot more armed that it's
it's they're more dangerous human beings
in general and I think that if this just
keeps happening and people from the
right feel threatened and their
lifestyle feels threatened and their
ideologies feel threatened you're gonna
get people meeting at these things and
it's gonna be more than just people
throwing mace and milkshakes at each
other it's going to be people showing up
ready for actual combat that's fucking
terrifying it's fucking terrifying and
this idea that you could just run around
hitting people and not have any
consequences it's like the way a child
looks at violence this is what bothers
me so much if you are if you looked at
their core tenets of what they want to
do and if they wanted to accomplish that
through political negotiation and
through conversation and rallies and and
and speeches fine that's fine but we
have people wearing masks hitting and
macing people you've you've packed
you've crossed the line into the land of
no return and you've called out to
people who oppose you you've challenged
them to come and do the same and this is
how violence begets greater violence
it's fucking dangerous it's really
dangerous violence does not exist in a
vacuum you can't just have a little bit
of violence and then there's no
repercussions people react to that
there's people that watch those videos
and watch you get punched and there is
no justification for that
you see someone like yourself who's a
small person slight in stature not
violent in any way and you're not even
swinging back you're just taking it and
trying to protect yourself
people get infuriated by that and
there's people right now I guarantee you
who saw that video who were thinking
what I would do if I was there I'd
fucking shoot all of them or I'd beat
them all to death with baseball bats or
I'd run them over with my car or do
things and the unhinged amongst the
right who feel like this is a in
opposition of their ideology they're
gonna show up someday and when that
happens people are gonna die
this is a fucking terrible and this is
where the mayor and the police and they
have not done their job and I believe
the police when they say that they've
been handcuffed and maybe the mayor just
didn't have an idea of where this was
all go but now you do this is the mayor
has been in office now for three years
and he finally did a press conference
two days ago nine days after my talk to
address this controversy right and what
was so frustrating is the the the police
chief had um publicly stated that she
thinks the city was a state should adopt
a law that makes it illegal to wear a
mask while committing a crime that
should be a no-brainer it's shocking
that in Portland I got a better idea how
about not you can't wear a mask in
public at these events because you can
say you can't wear a mask while
committing a crime you're wearing a mask
how do you who the fuck do you know
committed the crime you unless you take
the mask off them you can't even
identify them it's stupid you can't wear
a mask yet so this you know sounds like
a baseline somebody policy that you
should start advocating like don't kick
babies yeah well the mayor said he
hasn't decided if he supported it he
hasn't decided if he supported whether
notes should be illegal to wear a mask
while you're committing a crime right
that's hilarious
and he had no policy proposals and he
spoke as if like it was his first day in
office when this was like this is
becoming routine now it's almost but now
in Portland in Portland is a harbinger
and a warning to what can happen in
other cities when you have a
a governance those in the upper echelon
of governance turning a blind eye to
far-left militancy and just letting
these thugs go on the street just
imagine if it was the case if they were
doing that about far-right militancy
imagine if there were far-right people
who are doing this and committing
violence and the government was just
like well you know I'm not sure if they
shouldn't be allowed to wear masks why
they commit crimes people would be
freaking the fuck out it's the weird
justification of this stuff that's
that's so disturbing I just don't and I
fucking love Portland it's one of my
favorite places it's great the city's
great
I mean it's fucking cool people it's not
all of them that are involved in this is
a very small number and the even amongst
a small number it's the very small
number of them that are radical that are
violent when you look at the people that
are attacking you not to minimize it but
it's very few you look at that video
it's a couple people out of thousands of
people that are in that group there's a
few people that are attacking it was
about a dozen was it really yes okay if
you count throwing milkshakes but
actually hitting you how many people you
think hit you
not sure three four maybe something like
that okay that's the problem the problem
is these fucking assholes it's not the
people that disagree with you
so people who think you should be able
to throw milkshakes at people and guys
like Carlos Mesa who don't think it's a
big deal to throw milkshakes at people
it's a fucking big deal it's a big deal
because you it calls for a response
this is why it's a big deal and people
don't understand assault
they don't understand violence you can't
just do that you live in some comic book
world or some fucking Disney show world
where you can just throw a milkshake at
someone they don't do anything they're
gonna turn around punch you in your
fucking face and then what happens well
you might fall and hit your head and die
cuz that's real that's the real world we
live in
or you might cause a giant brawl because
people don't want to be hit with
milkshakes or there's enough of you
where you think you can get away with it
so you're an awful bully and you're
throwing milkshakes at someone because
you don't like what they stand for and
you're meeting in a public place and
you're disagreeing about something so to
right this disagreement you're
assaulting people well for that very
reason and if I never engages in like a
canonical fair fight one-on-one there
what they do usually as a group while
masked up one or several of them will
distract the person either by speaking
to them perhaps or blinding them with
the chemical spray and then they take
turns the beating so there's even no
opportunity to like no you know you
don't even know how many people hitting
you at that point so that's what they do
blind you and then attack mmm it's so
it's so scary cuz it's so dumb it's not
just scary because like you watching
what happened to you scary cuz you know
and watching that old man got hit in the
head with a crowbar
it's fucking horrific all that stuff's
horrific apparently that guy had pulled
out some sort of a rod and was swinging
at people before he got hit with a
crowbar I do not know but I do know when
you start hitting people in the head
with crowbars that is the beginning of
the end
horrible horrible shit happens in
response to that and it hasn't yet but
this is ten days ago who knows what's
going to happen if there's another one
of these rallies and you get people from
the far right who organized this is when
the proud boys really radicalized they
radicalized to go against antiva they
were attacked they attacked them and
then it became this fucking shit show
that you're seeing right now yeah I want
to state for the record though the the
violence that happened after I was beat
up was involving the the men's rights
activist group and an tyfa cowboys was
holding they held a separate event in a
different part of the city as far as I
know they did not there was no conflict
in this in this particular yeah in this
Oakley who was the men's rights guy was
actually a woman a woman who's a men's
rights person yes that's Alera she must
love dick right yeah I guess no comment
sorry I'm a comedian yeah didn't help it
um you don't even have to say her name
so she's she she organized this thing
yeah I would say here's the other thing
you know like I might what needs to be
stay
as well about I guess the right-wing
movements that are in Portland will come
to Portland to do these events there's
an element of being provocative as well
but that should never ever justify the
violence because I mean what explain
what you mean by being a provocateur
well for example holding an event in the
middle of downtown titling it like you
need that justice for victims of
domestic terrorism and then having a
picture of an Tifa like that is you know
you know it's an employer enjoying them
yes it's an inflict you know it causes a
reaction and so there's a you know
there's a there's an element of coming
in and seeing let's enrage these
lunatics on the far left or whatever but
at the same time I want to make sure I
state that just because somebody's
quote-unquote provocateur worked in the
words of the writing that it's
unfortunate that people now find that
that's justification for you to react
violently well I think again it's a
small percentage of people that find it
this justification and you look at the
number of people that were there what is
it thousands thousands of people how
many people actually engage in violence
small number but small number that's the
problem it's important to note that they
caught more al from the crowd who are
cheering them on the cowards the cowards
who don't disavow this horrific action
they cheered them on laughed and clapped
if I was getting beaten and then the
other thing about the people showing up
in numbers who don't engage in the
violence is they / they are like literal
human shields they dress the same so
they make it easy for the few violent
militants to nonde not exactly and these
people also watch the cops and they keep
an eye out on potential outsiders as
well and yeah it's become a game it's
become a game and it's become a gigantic
team war there's our team versus their
team it's Mike it's literally like
playing a childhood game it's really
disturbing man and so since this has
anyone from antiva
College eyes about what happened to you
or disavowed the actions of these few
extreme violent people of course not and
Tifa has an iron fist
on the people who support its movements
they don't allow any type of design
actually in there like press releases
you can call call them they explicitly
state that even basically even if you
disagree with our tactics you will not
publicly state it it's to create I guess
this image of unity right for a corner
movement if you disagree inside the
organization yes so how organized are
they they are a of a leader there in
terms of anti-fascist we understand
today really crystallized only after
2016 there's been very little academic
research until how they actually
organized but basically as a movement
they have essentially cells across the
country that are semi-autonomous United
by an ideology of Anarchy
anarcho-communism and their support for
violence so it's not so much a group
itself it's the people who are part of
that movement are drawn from other
actual groups they draw from the DSA
they draw from various workers unions
other anarchist groups and like other
terrorist entities they have processes
to radicalize sympathizers essentially
they have their own literature as well
and so it's much more organized than
people give them credit for they think
of them as just a you know people
showing up to fight on the street it's
there's there's meaning to that to that
violence and this literature to back it
up and they have you know they actively
recruit people to join the movement so
I've been asked like do you think the
federal authorities should stop in my
responses I think it's come to the point
that they do because with an tyfa it's
not it's beyond what local authorities
can do because a lot of these people a
lot of them are in Portland from
Portland a lot of them come from for
example from Eugene from Seattle from
neighboring areas that have other auntie
for people come in to participate in
violence for that day or to help out and
then they go back to where they're from
so they're they're coming in and out of
jurisdictions makes it hard for one
local body of authorities to address it
I think the DOJ needs to step in I think
it's gotten to that point but and with
20/20 coming up soon there could be
potential for a lot more political
violence if the results don't if the
elections results don't go as they wish
well that's an obvious one considering
the fact that this all became a thing
after Trump was elected yes with if the
DOJ did step in what do you think they
could do so that's well I mean do you
believe in the the ability to meet up
and express yourself publicly and the
the ability to protest and the ability
to just get together and have groups and
and you know express yourself yes
however that's not just what anti-fur
does right like I said the violence is a
feature of the movement so what federal
authorities do to stop either when you
say the violence is a feature of your
their movement is there is it did they
have anything written like the tenets of
their movement where they say that
violence is acceptable there's a book
called the anti-fascist handbook is
written by Mark Bray he's an academic at
Dartmouth he is I would call him when a
Anti Fog chief I do log so not only does
he explain what anti-fur does and in his
writings News makes it very clear that
the the quote self-defense is what
justifies offensive violence he actually
argues why that's ethical so because
he's an academic well-spoken he's
invited onto mainstream media to explain
to basically like I said earlier
mainstream antiva what can you explain
him what he says
yes I highly recommend that people take
a look at his book the Attorney General
in Minnesota keith Ellison was
photographed a year ago holding holding
up that book of anti phobic and that
kind of what he's been criticized a bit
for that he deleted that image after my
beating was holding it up in support
yeah he said this he said something
about like this book or an typhus
strikes fear into the heart of Donald
Trump yeah
so there's people in government who has
sympathetic to antipholus this professor
can explain what he says he outlines and
explains essentially why anti fuzz
violence is ethical that it's because
they're opposing fascism and fascism is
a violent movement this is sort of a
pre-emptive move like we have this word
fascism yet it is a problem right yes
because it seems like that's definitely
something you should oppose but what is
the what's the actual definition of
fascism fascism as a far-right political
ideology from what I understand pull up
the definition Jamie so we could just
read what fascism with the actual word
fascism means here form of radical
right-wing authoritarian authoritarian
ultra-nationalism characterized by
dictatorial power forcible suppression
of opposition and strong regimentation
of society and of the economy which came
to prominence in early twentieth century
Europe forcible suppression of put the
faculties
forcible suppression of opposition is
what they're doing yes strong
regimentation of society I mean they're
literally telling people how to behave
and what they will tolerate I know it's
not right-wing ideology but it's almost
like fascism and I'm sure there's other
definitions of fascism the idea of
supporting someone who opposes fascism
sounds wonderful sounds great let's
let's stop fascism but
are we really experiencing authoritarian
ultra-nationalism characterized by
dictatorial power in this country I mean
is that not a fair thing to say I know
people don't like Donald Trump I know
people don't like right-wing ideologies
running this country I understand that
but this is not it's not what's
happening yeah the issue like fascism as
defined by political theorists who have
been researching this for decades it has
a particular definition in meaning and
that's I think that summarizes it pretty
well I'm very concerned that people use
it so flippantly to just refer to the
right or to even authoritarianism like
there's much more to it than just being
authoritarian there's all those other
components and I need it's important to
state that an tyfa's not just supposed
to the far right or the right they're
also against liberal democracy there's a
reason why they hate the police so much
hate border enforcement and hate the
rule of law it's dope against light the
concept of the nation-state as we
understand it and they're working to
dismantle that 2d legitimate it so this
is what I mean when I say it's a it's a
dangerous ideology that for now you know
enemy my enemy is your is your friend
but at some point if this movement
becomes bigger more mainstream and more
people as sympathetic at some point it's
going to come back against the moderate
not because these people and they want
to see the destruction of the nation did
want to see destruction the nation-state
for what purpose they want anarchy yes
so there are political an arrest
anarchist social anarchists they don't
want borders they don't want nations
they don't want police okay what do they
want be I mean what do they expect
what's the ultimate goal they seem to
believe in a utopian utopian Marxist
ideas right of this risk redistribution
of wealth where we can be we can only be
truly equal in egalitarian when we
dismantle everything about the country
so not just you know it's institutions
the rule of law but the state itself
like everything just has to be broken
down in start over because is
irredeemable I'm not quite sure if I
mean they've you know an tyfa I can't
think of like where they have how if
there's any somewhat comparable examples
around the world of what it looks like
for them to do State Building right so
we don't know what it would actually
look like but I mean the examples we see
from these smaller anecdotes is chaos
and anarchy like absolute chaos and
violent suppression of opposing views
indiscriminate violence at times I
wonder and what I've been asking over
and over is how many more people have to
be drawn in to have to be victims of
this violence before something changes
and a potent Portland now we've had
three years of this and literally no
policy changes have happened no even
proposals have even been accepted by the
mayor the previous mayor was what was
his political persuasion or her I don't
know these are all the people who become
elected mayor in Portland's are
typically establishment Democrats right
so they themselves are moderate very
much you know in the vein of a Hillary
Clinton type of thing but there's a
constituency in Portland that they have
to play to four votes which is the
radical people who is sympathetic to
very very progressive causes and so
there's a reason why to date the mayor
has never named an T for one time in any
of his press conferences he has no
problem blaming proud boys a patriot
pair of the right for issues patriot
prayer not the another group
prayer is one of the other right-wing
movements and in and around Portland
that have held pro-trump events in town
that anti-fog comes to to fight and
impose those turn out they devolve into
riots and the police allowed those they
allow it through the inaction Wow it's
just it's interesting to see a city
that's gone so far off the rails like
Portland in this regard with this issue
you know when you see this in action and
what the consequences are now how it
happens and it's particularly for a
person like you you you physically see
it you personally see it are you gonna
continue to do these things because it
seems like you're obviously a target oh
yeah and when I was haces in my
interviews this week last week the the
the response that I that comes to my mom
right away is of course I'm gonna
continue doing it I these people throw
out to me before I've been attacked
before I'm not going to be cowed I'm
going to continue I won't be intimidated
but with the the brain injury that they
gave me it's like I can't continue doing
it the same way as I did before and
being a naive to think that police would
actually uphold the rule of law they
gave me a brain injury and like I never
had one before but I'm dealing with some
cognitive and neurological issues so I
will learn what memory issues I have
issues so I have upcoming physical that
neuro physical therapy as well as speech
therapy so as much as like on the
surface I have improved a lot since the
beating there are some long-term
consequences that I'm gonna have to work
through and you know I have to be honest
I have certain fears and anxieties of
being important I've continued receive
threats violent threats and they've been
reported to police and just people
promising to make sure next time that I
won't even be able to walk away that
they
repeat what happens to me when they see
me on the streets so like have they
caught the people that did this to you
so it's been ten days now more than ten
days this is my beating there have been
no arrests I don't know where the police
are in the investigation they haven't
been keeping me informed there was a
photograph of someone they released yeah
so the Portland Police released photos
of potential suspects and asking for
help in identifying one was on mouse two
two of them were masked and I forgot to
say earlier than in addition to the the
beating they robbed me of my my camera
equipment so that was my my evidence for
that day and I tried so hard to hold on
to it but I couldn't
what about you attending this with
security have you thought about doing
that yeah so moving forward
once I feel well enough and once I'm
cleared by the doctors it may be worth
it to cover these events but with
professional security guerrillas big
giant dudes yeah would they wear what
like armor like what would you have how
far would you take this I don't know
what how far do you think I should take
it I don't think you should go to those
things anymore okay I mean it seems like
you've been I mean it is part of your
job you're a journalist but it seems
like you've been singled out and
targeted and it seems like they don't
have any problem justifying attacking
you and assaulting you if I was gonna go
I'd bring the biggest baddest dudes that
I could find and a bunch of them and
have them surround you and have them
protect you
what's I tell you about America that in
29 I think it's America yes it's this
one particular area and this one
particular group and not even the group
I think it's the most ridiculous people
in that group I don't think it's most I
think most these people that probably
are a part of this really don't want
fascists and they really don't want some
awful right ring totalitarian regime
running this country and in marginalized
people of color gay people and
immigrants and all those things that
I support 100% I'm left-wing I mean I
would be on their side ideologically
about a lot of things it's the
implementation of it that I have the
biggest problem with it's is the group
mentality it's the wearing the masks is
the salts so not understanding the
consequences of violence all these
things this is what I have a problem
with the way the mayor allows us to take
place the way handcuffs the police that
that is what I have a problem with it's
not that they don't want horrible people
running the government and running the
world I understand that that makes sense
but you're not for the dismounting of
the nation-state right nope no no I'm
not or the breakdown on democracy No
yeah so these are the points that I'm
trying get head-on right those are the
points that are hidden right these are
important things that make up the
ideology of NC 4 and the the larger
those who are sympathetic because of the
anti-fascist aspect of the anti right
wing they are ignorant of it and I hope
they become aware that I think that's
what's important about your work that's
what's important about these discussions
that's it's important about people
getting the word understanding what this
really means not what it seems on paper
it's like we're the anti Nazi movement
well who the fuck could go against that
of course you're anti-nazi that's know
who everybody should be that's what it
seems like
well we're anti fascist good we don't
want fascists I think that's what Chris
Cuomo was saying I think that's what Don
Lemon was saying I think they're too
busy I don't think they're really
investigating this I don't think they're
deep diving and understanding the
ideology at its core the way you're
describing it and whoever that professor
was that you were discussing that is
somehow or another condoning violence
that that is ridiculous anyone who
considers themselves an intellectual who
condones violence all this punch of Nazi
stuff goddamn it you don't understand
violence you don't know what you're
talking about you don't understand the
human condition because if you if you
understood violence it's the last thing
you would ever be calling for can I talk
about the the next step of what's next
for sure so a lot of people listening
and are frustrated and have expressed
support are asking well what can I do
I'm just one
and this is the the power now we live in
time where this crowdfunding and you
know with all the points that we brought
up earlier it seems to show a lot of
evidence to suggest that there's
something seriously wrong in the past
ramones of policing and governing in
Portland and that's what the the legal
fund is so I'm working with Hani Dillon
she represented James d'amour
she's taking me on as a first client for
the nonprofit that she started called if
you go to Publius Lacs PU bli us le XCOM
you'll see information for how you can
donate and anything helps and we're
trying we you know lawsuits if they
happen against the city or mayor or
police department costs a lot of money
and takes a lot of time takes you know
there's a lot of overhead costs and a
lot of people you know you have to take
in to do all the investing to do your
own investigations so there's an
opportunity for the public to get
involved you know I don't want the story
to pass just about Andy got beat up so
what let's move on but rather there's
systemic issues happening in Portland
and there are implications for the rest
of the country what do you think is
going on with media that is supporting
this attack on you because I I've seen
so many journalists dismiss this as
being not a big deal why why do you
think that anybody would look at
something like that or someone's being
beaten publicly and not think it's a big
deal what do you think's behind that
extremist ideologies are very good at
dehumanizing their opposition and that's
what anti-fur does so there's been a lot
of disinformation this information put
out about me you know I'm not I'm not
they say for example I'm not really
journalist I'm just far-right
provocative I'm somebody who's
sympathetic to Nazis and so when you put
these ideas out
not only are lies but I meant to remove
ones humanity they just become you know
like Andes no longer auntie auntie is
the face of far-right ideology and it
makes people feel comfortable with
violence against that and it was so
disheartening to see so many writers
come out and say things like you know I
don't really support what happened Andy
but he's done far worse or he was too
provocative his writings like he came
and he he got exactly what he was
looking for what happened to me should
happen to nobody much lesser journalist
right like this is an America in a major
American city we're not you know this is
not in Afghanistan or Iraq where the
state is weak we have a strong state we
have police force why the laws not being
enforced while citizens having to suffer
why they no arrest why they no arrest
it's really absurd and it's obscene yeah
when is the next one of these things
supposed to take place on the 17th of
August is supposedly the next event
I think the proud boys have announced
that they're encouraging all of their
members across the country to fly into
Portland and it's always fucking
Portland yeah they're kind of reacting I
think to the 29th of June so we'll see
what happens I'm concerned are you gonna
grow I don't know you should go and get
a popemobile let them throw milkshakes
at the popemobile get a big old fish
tank put some wheels on it have some
giant dude to push you around the I'm
joking around about it obviously to try
to make light but some do you really
think you're gonna go I don't know if I
feel safe and I hate we shouldn't feel
safe well I hate using the language of
the identitarian left you know like I
feel unsafe and all that I'm trying to
remain
No okay but you were assault yet twice
and I continued receipt thoughts you
were assaulted what may yes and then you
were assaulted again in June yeah yeah
so and you can send continue to receive
threats is this necessary to go to these
things to cover them do you think nice
ain't part of the problem with people
that like Don Lemon and Chris Cuomo who
were talking about this who haven't
actually been there they really don't
understand it and maybe you do because
you're covering it with boots on the
ground you got it you know when you're
all the way in New York City and you
work for the elite media and you always
even when you travel to protests you
have a very large crew of security
around you it does it removes you a bit
from the reality of the situation and I
don't think any of these people who are
opining on these mainstream media
television shows have actually embedded
themselves to covering these violent
riots that are happening in Portland or
in Berkeley how many of the people that
are involved in antiva do you think
really understand that they're trying to
dismantle the government really
understand that they want the state to
absolve dissolve I don't have a number
for that it's definitely small it's the
same people who engage it would probably
be around those who are engaging in
violence and those who are eating and
not violence for example creating
shields or whatever allowing them to
hide among them those people I think
understand very much what the ideology
is those people who come unmasked you
know and just read the the Facebook
event page oppose fascist come protect
Portland those people I think are
ignorant of the ideology behind the
movement and groups that are organizing
these events I can't put a number in
them this is like where there needs to
be researched by academics and in think
tanks to look into and this is where
federal authorities because need to be
looking into as well like how are they
organized where are the businesses that
are helping them fund some of their
causes because they you know when some
of them remember
members get arrested they have money for
bail who's involved in funding that
money and who's helping to to disperse
their literature that they use to
radicalize people like these are this
requires research and intelligence
gathering and as far as I know it's not
being done there's a real concern among
some people that we're entering a phase
of this country where there's a real
possibility of having some sort of a
civil unrest civil war when you see
something like these Portland events
when you see this kind of chaos do you
think that that's a valid concern not
for something that is across the country
but perhaps very regional or to the city
itself and not so much like civil war
but the violence that is done and
planned by an tyfa is meant to make the
wider public not just polarizing hate
each other but also began to distrust
the institutions that are in place that
i meant to uphold democracy so the
police in portland have come under fire
for example not just from the radical
left but a lot of people who are
normally very pro police are finding
like what is wrong it's important police
like we can't even trust them so there's
if things just continue I think the
violence will continue to escalate
leading to a death or death that's my
real concern it's my real concern as
well and you think this is particularly
unique to Portland in the way they're
treating and addressing it I'm trying to
think of comparable other cities that
have had some of these issues so for
example in San Jose in 20s and 16 Trump
supporters when they were leaving a
Trump rally were brutally assaulted by
mobs of people and then there was a
lawsuit that was launched against the
city for basically putting citizens in
the way of danger the way they were
funneled outside of this event
led them directly in front of these
violent protesters who attack them
you know and those footage that went
viral of that year since then policing
tactics have changed in San Jose as far
as I know and you know involve the
lawsuit so like sometimes it takes
lawsuits for the local government to
start protecting people's civil rights
so right now as bad as it is it does
seem confined to Portland we haven't
seen that for example in Berkeley the
type of violence as in 2017 when Milo
Cain like you know that hasn't been
repeated for a year and a half now so
but it takes the political will of those
in power to enforce the law right so you
mentioned lawsuits what lawsuits are you
pursuing well immediately right now what
I would like to see is the city of
Portland carry out a full investigation
and hold accountable all those who were
involved in attacking me or aided in
that as well and then as the evidence
whether evidence leaves if this shows
that there were was dereliction of duty
from those in power then you know I
reserve my judgment my lawyer reserves
judgment for you know who if anyone gets
sued at that point but right now I'm
very focused on seeing that in putting
pressure on the city to arrest people
who are responsible and charged on and
get convictions as well all right in
enclosed because I know you gotta get
out here is there a silver lining to any
this I mean do you think that perhaps
your assault and the the fact that the
police did intervene is actually
allowing people understand the the real
significance of this the the real
problem of this that it's this is a real
issue a gigantic one in fact that goes
against the core tenants the value of a
free expression and and the ability to
gather and communicate safely in public
yeah as hard as it was for me to see you
silver lining when I was laying in
hospital with so much pain and there's
one and that is that everybody paid
attention to what happened to me it was
a big story even the mainstream liberal
press could not ignore it and I'm hoping
that from that it goes beyond just being
a headline but forcing the national
discourse to change on how it views and
talks about mt4 we'll see if that
happens I feel encouraged that we're
beginning to see some cracks in the way
that an tyfa has been protected by
sympathetic writers in journalists and
those in mainstream media I mean the
fact that keith Ellison deleted that
photo that he shared a year ago right
after that was attacked I think
indicates that there's even he faces a
certain pressure that it may not be good
for a mainstream politician to so
actively promote this movement and I
hope it continues to move in that
direction if you had a crystal ball and
you were looking at the future what do
you what do you think you would say well
based on the press release press
conference at the mayor did two days ago
him not sure not having any proposals it
seems like more violence has to happen
all right
Andy I hope you're wrong me too but
thank you for being here my pleasure all
right take it easy
thank you stay safe out there we thank
you smile too
[Music]
[Applause]